Multi edge (#558)
axiomhq/docs: reference/edge-deployments.mdx

### Determine your organization’s edge deployment

The default edge deployment of your organization determines where Axiom stores your event data unless you specify a different edge deployment when creating a dataset. You can’t change your default edge deployment after creating your organization.

To determine your organization’s default edge deployment:

1. Click <Icon icon="gear" iconType="solid"/> **Settings > General**.
1. Find your organization’s default edge deployment in the **Edge deployment** section.

## Multi-edge organizations

To create datasets in an edge deployment other than your organization’s default edge deployment, purchase the add-on associated with the desired edge deployment. You will then be able to choose the edge deployment associated with a dataset on dataset creation. Note that the add-on must remain active to retain access to datasets located outside your organization’s default edge deployment.

> Queries run in a multi-edge organization can only access data from a single edge deployment at a time. When wildcard operators are used to match datasets in queries run in multi-edge organizations, only datasets within the organization’s default edge deployment will be matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create datasets in an edge deployment other than your organization’s default edge deployment:
1. [Buy the add-on](/reference/usage-billing#manage-add-ons) associated with the new edge deployment.
1. When you [create a new dataset](/reference/datasets#create-dataset), select the new edge deployment.
 
 <Note>
Add-on must remain active to retain access to datasets located outside your organization’s default edge deployment.

In multi-edge organizations, each query can only access data from a single edge deployment. Wildcard operators in queries only match datasets within the organization’s default edge deployment.
</Note>
```

### Determine your organization’s edge deployment

> The default edge deployment of your organization determines where Axiom stores your event data unless you specify a different edge deployment when creating a dataset. You can’t change your default edge deployment after creating your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In multi-region organizations, you can specify the edge deployment for each dataset. This is means that you can select where Axiom stores your event data when creating a new dataset. You can't change the edge deployment of a dataset after creating the dataset.

The default edge deployment of your organization is the option automatically selected when you create a new dataset. You can’t change your default edge deployment after creating your organization.
```

Author: I'm not so keen on this change. The vast majority of organizations will not be multi-edge.

Reviewer: I think this is only relevant for multi-region organizations anyway. If you're single-region org, it would be strange to read `unless you specify a different edge deployment when creating a dataset`, which is something you can't do.

To determine your organization’s default edge deployment:

1. Click <Icon icon="gear" iconType="solid"/> **Settings > General**.
1. Find your organization’s default edge deployment in the **Edge deployment** section.

## Roadmap for edge deployments
## Multi-edge organizations
To create datasets in an edge deployment other than your organization’s default edge deployment:
1. [Buy the add-on](/reference/usage-billing#manage-add-ons) associated with the new edge deployment.
1. When you [create a new dataset](/reference/datasets#create-dataset), select the new edge deployment.
 
 <Note>
Add-on must remain active to retain access to datasets located outside your organization’s default edge deployment.

Axiom is evolving its edge deployment architecture to provide more flexibility and control.

### SDK support

<Badge>Feb 2026</Badge> Axiom SDKs will support edge deployments through environment variables. The SDKs will default to `US East 1 (AWS)`. Until Axiom updates all SDKs, configure ingest endpoints manually.

> ### Integrations

Reviewer: Could we add this section back about integrations?

Author: The project for updating SDKs / integrations to work with new edge deployments is complete

Reviewer: @benenharrington Thanks for this. I still see. Should we mention the limitations about endpoints?
<img width="1148" height="102" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dec68b72-c1cc-4549-8976-fee5f4c69dec" />
